I'm going to demonstrate the installation and verification of the
JHipster generator for a command line interface.
You should have installed the prerequisites especially Yarn,
as it's going to be leveraged to retrieve the necessary packages.
First, Yarn will be used to retrieve the Yeoman scaffolding tool.
As I mentioned earlier in the course,
JHipster is a generator that's based on the Yeoman tool.
With Yeoman installed, I'll again use Yarn to retrieve the JHipster generator.
While this course, and JHipster are operating system agnostic,
I'll be leveraging Windows PowerShell for the demonstration.
Let's look at the commands that will be used in the demo.
I'll start the demonstration by running the yarn version command.
This is just a check to verify that Yarn is installed correctly,
and with the right version.
Next, I'll run the command, yarn global add yo.
This installs the latest Yeoman package globally,
making it available across projects.
Next, I'll run the command, yo --version,
which will verify that Yeoman installed correctly.
The last installation command is yarn global add generator-jhipster.
Again,
this is installing at a global level so that the JHipster
generator is available across projects.
Finally, I'll execute the command, yo jhipster.
This runs the Yeoman tool using the JHipster generator,
and verifies the installation.
Let's start the demo.
I've opened up Windows PowerShell.
Since we're going to be installing Yeoman and JHipster globally,
I don't really care so much about what folder I am in.
I've started out on the dev folder of the C drive.
The first command I'm going to run Is yarn's base version.
This is verifying that the Yarn package manager is installed correctly.
I see it's at version 0.
27.
5, and I also see an error message.
You can safely ignore that error message,
it's just simply saying that there's no package.
json file in this folder,
and we really don't care because it's not our project folder.
I'm going to continue on now to install Yeoman.
To install Yeoman, I need to run the command, yarn global add yo.
Now your installation may take a little longer,
I've of course fast forwarded to the success message,
but we see the success message saying that we installed Yeoman correctly.
We installed version 2.
0.
0, but we also want to verify it, so I'm going to run the command yo --version.
And that gives me back the version number as 2.
0.
0, which we expected.
So now that Yeoman's installed, I can install the JHipster generator.
To do that, I'm going to run the command, yarn global add generator-jhipster.
So once again I fast forwarded it through the installation,
but we again see a success message.
It says that installed generator-jhipster with version 4.
6.
2.
So if I installed this correctly, I should be able to run the command,
yo jhipster.
And there we have it.
If everything was installed successfully,
you'll see the ASCII of the JHipster generator.
An important note here, the JHipster generator gets updated actively,
so it's likely that you may be warned of an available JHipster
upgrade as you continue with the course.
It's safe to upgrade, there's no major releases that are planned at this time.
This concludes the demo, and let's look at some additional JHipster installation details.